Update the triage/triaging.rst page. (#914)
python/devguide: triage/triaging.rst

This section of the devguide documents the :ref:`issue tracker <tracker>` for
users and developers.

Checklist for Triaging
======================

> * Check that the title is concise with specifics which are helpful to
>   someone scanning a list of issue titles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check that the title is reasonably concise, while including enough specifics
  so that those scanning the list of issues can quickly identify its topic.
```

* Use clearer, more descriptive and more idiomatic phrasing
* Avoid repetition and awkwardness

To note, right now triagers can't touch issue titles at all, but once python/core-workflow#460 is implemented (which after more positive feedback in one last round of IRL discussion with those involved, I plan to submit to the SC today and they can hopefully review it as soon as Monday), they will be able to do this.

> * For pull request, ensure that the corresponding issue is added before
>   the title (``gh-NNNNN: ...``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For pull requests, ensure that the corresponding issue is added before
  the title (``gh-NNNNN: ...``).
```

Grammar fix

> * Read the initial message and the comments.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this go first, as it was before? Otherwise, traigers can't know if the issue title is accurate and descriptive about the actual issue involved...

Author: Done

>   the title (``gh-NNNNN: ...``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the title (:samp:`gh-NNNNN: {Title}`).
```

A little clearer

* Set all the relevant :ref:`labels <gh-labels>`.

> * Where appropriate, you might set the "Assignees", "Reviewers", and
>   "Projects" fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Where appropriate, set the :guilabel:`Assignees`,
  :guilabel`Reviewers`, and :guilabel:`Project` fields.
```

What _is_ Assignees conventionally used for in CPython? Also, note that Project can't currently be used by traigers, but likewise should be usable very soon with the workflow change.

* You might also leave a brief comment about the proposed next action needed.

>   If there is a long message list, a summary can be very helpful.

Reviewer: Isn't one major role of a triager to set the appropriate `expert` label (which I guess is included under the labels) and/or ping the appropriate experts directly?

Author: The `expert-*` labels are included above.  I now added a note about pinging people.

> * Finally, you can set the ``triaged`` label (unless you want other triagers

Author: ```suggestion
* Finally, you can set the :gh-label:`triaged` label (unless you want other triagers
```

>   to take a look).

Reviewer 2: This is so far the first and only documentation we have about the "triaged" label, so let me try to understand what it's for.  The idea is that if a triager **does not want** other triagers to look at the issue, they put a triaged label?

Why would a triager not want other triagers to look at the issue?

Is it then offensive for another triager or core dev to change the labels on the issue (undermining a decision that another triager marked at 'final')?

This sounds to me like the opposite of how we work.  It's the equivalent of a label that a no-committer can put on a PR to say "this has been reviewed. I do not want other non-commiters to review it".  We don't have this label. We have the "awaiting core review" label which indicates that a non-committer has reviewed, but it does not dis-invite further reviews from non-committers.

Reviewer 2: I see now that if I hover over the label it says "The issue has been accepted as valid by a triager". Which is quite different from what is implied by this doc. 

I don't think validity is something we expect triagers to decide about (when I proposed a "valid" label I tried to be clear that it is to be used by subject matter experts, not triagers). If you think that this is for triagers to decide, then this doc should explain how a triager is supposed to make that decision. If you don't think that, then the tooltip on the "triaged" label needs to change to whatever it is that this label means.

Author: I don't remember the exact timeline, but I wrote that sentence on Aug 6 and I might have added the label description on GitHub later after more discussions.

However it seems there is still no clear consensus on how it should be used.  Are you at the sprints?  Perhaps it could be discussed there.

Regarding this specific PR, it is mostly about updating the checklist, not documenting the label itself.  I can remove or change the sentence, and possibly re-add/update it again in next iteration.  I also have another incoming PR (#930) where I can document it more extensively.

Reviewer 3: What meaning did the Steering Council intend when they approved the new term?

I agree with deferring the Triaged sentence to get on with the improved list.

Author: See https://discuss.python.org/t/improve-communication-with-contributors-on-the-issue-tracker-and-prs-language-summit-follow-up/15812/30, in particular: 

> The triaged label would signify that the process is done (for now, at least) – and since the issue wasn’t closed, it’s “valid” and waiting for a core dev.

Reviewer 2: > Are you at the sprints? Perhaps it could be discussed there.

I'm online, but I don't feel able to contribute on this matter beyond commenting on whether I think the documentation is consistent and clear.

Reviewer 4: > The idea is that if a triager does not want other triagers to look at the issue, they put a triaged label?

No, the idea is that if a triager thinks there is nothing more a triager can do, they mark the issue so others don't need to re-read it.

> Is it then offensive for another triager or core dev to change the labels on the issue (undermining a decision that another triager marked as 'final')?

That would be like any other disagreement. It could be done in an offensive way, but hopefully won't.

> this has been reviewed. I do not want other non-commiters to review it

I'd word it as “This has been reviewed. Other non-commiters are free to re-review it, but I believe their time would be better spent elsewhere.”

*(I don't speak for the entire Steering Council here.)*

Reviewer 2: > The triaged label would signify that the process is done (for now, at least)

Does “for now, at least” mean that the triaged label will be removed by a bot after a certain amount of time? Or how else will it work long term?

> * If instead the issue is invalid (can't reproduce, duplicate, etc.),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the issue is clearly invalid (not CPython, duplicate, spam, etc.),
```

Clean up phrasing, be more explicit that issue should clearly be invalid, and tweak reasons to give more "clear" examples

> Note: some of these fields can only be set/edited by core developers.

Reviewer: As mentioned, this limitation should be removed soon

>   you can close it as "not planned".
> 
> Note: some of these fields can only be set/edited by core developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  you can close it as :guilabel:`not planned`.

.. Remove note once python/core-workflow#460 is implemented

.. note:: Some of these fields can only be set/edited by core developers.
```

Make this an actual note, use appropriate role and add a reminder to remove it

=====================

Once you know your way around how Python's source files are
structured and you are comfortable with the workflow, a great way to
contribute is to help triage issues. Do realize, though, that experience
working on Python is needed in order to effectively help triage.

Around the clock, new issues are being opened on the :ref:`issue tracker
<tracker>` and existing issues are being updated. Every issue needs to be

> triaged to make sure various things are in proper order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
triaged to make sure everything runs smoothly.
```

IMO, at least in AmE the previous reads like "sorting"/"ordering" things, whereas this to me gives a better sense of the benefit it provides to the process

These are things you can help with once you have experience developing for
Python:

> * Try reproducing the bug: for instance, if a bug is not explained clearly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Try reproducing the bug: if it is not explained clearly
```

The "for instance" is redundant and the phrasing sounds off, better to just proceed directly to the point, IMO

  enough for you to reproduce it, then there is a good chance a core developer
  won't be able to either.
* See if the issue happens on a different Python version: it is always helpful
  to know if a bug not only affects the in-development version of Python, but
  whether it also affects other versions in maintenance mode.
* Write a unit test: if the bug lacks a unit test that should end up in
  Python's test suite, having that written can be very helpful.

This is all helpful as it allows members of the :ref:`triage team <triage-team>`
to properly classify an issue so it can be handled by the right core developers
in a timely fashion.

Reviewing Pull Requests
-----------------------

If an issue has a linked pull request that has not been reviewed,
you can help by making sure the pull request:

* is a good solution to the problem it is trying to solve

> * follows the style guides

Reviewer: Link something here?

Author: Done.

* includes proper tests
* includes proper documentation changes
* includes a :ref:`NEWS entry <news-entry>` (if needed)

> * includes the author in ``Misc/ACKS``, either already or the patch adds them

Reviewer: Use new role here?

Author: That PR is not merged yet -- we can add it later throughout the devguide.

* doesn't have conflicts with the ``main`` branch

Doing all of this allows core developers and :ref:`triagers <triage-team>`
to more quickly look for subtle issues that only people with extensive
experience working on Python's code base will notice.

See also :ref:`committing`.

Finding an Issue You Can Help With
----------------------------------

If you want to help with triaging, you might also want to search for issues

> in modules which you have a working knowledge.  Search for the name of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in modules for which you have a working knowledge.  Search for the name of a
```

Grammar error; missed it the first time
